readme.md, before:

# CS-5780 Final Project


## Build Instructions

### Generate Source
In order to generate the required source files, you must use [STMCube](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubemx.html) to open ```/MicroController/MicroController.ioc``` then select the "Generate Code" Button in the top left.
![CubeMX layout Example](/CubeMX.PNG "CubeMX layout Example")

### Build MicroController image
[STM32-for-VScode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bmd.stm32-for-vscode) is a required Extension for this repository, if you do not have it installed follow installation and configuration instructions [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bmd.stm32-for-vscode).

With [STM32-for-VScode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bmd.stm32-for-vscode) installed, select the stm extension on the left panel. Then first select the "build" option then "Flash STM32" or "Debug STM32" depending on if you wish to debug changes or simply run the robot.
![STM32-for-VScode](/STM32-for-vscode.PNG "STM32-for-VScode layout Example")

## Wiring Diagrams
The rover has a very simple wiring system, for the most part components are connected to a direct breakout of a STM32F075 processor. Connections can be seen below. 
![STM32-Connections](/ControllerConnections.PNG "STM32-wiring")

In addition to the controller, there are 2 ultrasonic sensor, 1 USART bluetooth unit, and a Isaac's Dual motor controller. Pin connections are listed bellow for clarification. 

![SensorA Wiring](/SensorAWire.PNG "Ultra sonic sensor A Wiring") 
![SensorB Wiring](/SensorBWire.PNG "Ultra sonic sensor B Wiring")




## Optional Debug feature
Note: It is highly recommended to use the built in debugger built into the stm VSCode. For usage instructions for this method see [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bmd.stm32-for-vscode). 

### Reading serial Debug
For our optional additional debug option, general debug information will be sent over serial bluetooth to a connected device. To read this data, connect the robots bluetooth device, then read the serial data using your favorite serial monitor (for example [Serial Monitor](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-serial-monitor)). 

### Adding Serial Debug statements
If additional information is need to properly debug the functionality of the rover, simply import ```charBuffer.h``` at the top of the relevant c File. Then use the command ```AppendCharBuffer(UsartWriteQueue,char[] msg,int msgLen);``` Always use ```UsartWriteQueue``` but then set msg to be some string you wish to send over serial and msgLen as the length of the message being sent. 


Team Members
+ Isaac Christensen
+ Sam Refahiyat
+ Carlos Carvajal

Commit message:

Added more to the readme
I added sections for you guys to fill in when you get a chance.

readme.md, after:

# CS-5780 Final Project
 
 <!-- Come up with a project name? -->
 
 
## Purpose
Fill this in with the purpose of this project

## Functionality
Fill this in with what the rover does, and how it operates. autonomous ect.

## Flow charts
Add the state machine diagram for the control logic here, and any other flow charts that are relevant. 


## Build Instructions
### Generate Source
In order to generate the required source files, you must use [STMCube](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubemx.html) to open ```/MicroController/MicroController.ioc``` then select the "Generate Code" Button in the top left.
![CubeMX layout Example](/CubeMX.PNG "CubeMX layout Example")

### Build MicroController image
[STM32-for-VScode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bmd.stm32-for-vscode) is a required Extension for this repository, if you do not have it installed follow installation and configuration instructions [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bmd.stm32-for-vscode).

With [STM32-for-VScode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bmd.stm32-for-vscode) installed, select the stm extension on the left panel. Then first select the "build" option then "Flash STM32" or "Debug STM32" depending on if you wish to debug changes or simply run the robot.
![STM32-for-VScode](/STM32-for-vscode.PNG "STM32-for-VScode layout Example")

## Wiring Diagrams
The rover has a very simple wiring system, for the most part components are connected to a direct breakout of a STM32F075 processor. With the exception of the 2 DC motor to control the wheels, that are connected to the motor controller with the connections shown below. Connections to the micro controller can be seen below as well. 
![STM32-Connections](/ControllerConnections.PNG "STM32-wiring")

In addition to the controller, there are 2 ultrasonic sensor, 1 USART bluetooth unit, and a Isaac's Dual motor controller. Pin connections are listed bellow for clarification. 

![SensorA Wiring](/SensorAWire.PNG "Ultra sonic sensor A Wiring") 
![SensorB Wiring](/SensorBWire.PNG "Ultra sonic sensor B Wiring")
![Motor Controller Diagram](/MotorControllerWire.PNG "Motor Controller Wiring diagram")



## Optional Debug feature
Note: It is highly recommended to use the built in debugger built into the stm VSCode. For usage instructions for this method see [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bmd.stm32-for-vscode). 

### Reading serial Debug
For our optional additional debug option, general debug information will be sent over serial bluetooth to a connected device. To read this data, connect the robots bluetooth device, then read the serial data using your favorite serial monitor (for example [Serial Monitor](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-serial-monitor)). 

### Adding Serial Debug statements
If additional information is need to properly debug the functionality of the rover, simply import ```charBuffer.h``` at the top of the relevant c File. Then use the command ```AppendCharBuffer(UsartWriteQueue,char[] msg,int msgLen);``` Always use ```UsartWriteQueue``` but then set msg to be some string you wish to send over serial and msgLen as the length of the message being sent. 


Team Members
+ Isaac Christensen
+ Sam Refahiyat
+ Carlos Carvajal
